hey guys and welcome back to my world so
today I'm looking at how to detect if
you're in a cave whether you're in a
house with you standing under a tree and
so forth so the moment I come out from
under the stream you'll see that I am no
longer covered and the moment I go
underneath the tree I am covered it's
same works exactly for the cave again
I've got the titles here just so that
you can actually have a visual
representation of what's actually
happening so as you can see when I'm not
covered I can walk around outside
because it's a nighttime so and one of
the possible uses for this is if I go
game zero so I've put myself into
survival and I then change it to time
six a day okay you'll see that unless
I'm undercover I will actually burn so
there we go I've covered and I've now
still burn while them while I'm still on
fire so as long as I'm covered whoops I
will not burn and I died okay cool so
this kind of really opens up a lot of
different game VIP game modes or game
variations and then I'm actually we are
actually working on and I'm not going to
say who we are are working on a like a
vampire type map so what I'm just going
to show you is actually how the testing
for it works now over here I have a
block of air now I place this block of
air by hand okay now I'm joking it's
just a straightforward block of it it's
got nothing in it so what I'm doing is
I'm doing a test for blocks okay from
the Y for Corps for hot wife or to the Y
100 so this is roughly about 96 air
blocks that I'm comparing to where I'm
currently standing so let me just really
get up get over here so first off you'll
see that I've got over here I've got a
custom head so if the head is actually
called the vampire and when I put the
head on and I will then act I will then
get one added to my vampire score so
this is important I mean it's you don't
have to have it it's just so you can
understand the next bit
okay so I've got over here I'm going to
execute a command so I'm going to
execute a test for blocks command at all
players or any player that has a vampire
score of one I you do not need this okay
this is just because I'm using for
something very specific okay you do not
need to have that score if you're not
using it for what I'm using it for so
you're going to execute at a player now
what I'm doing is I'm actually going to
run this come on one block above me so
the block I'm standing on when my feet
my feet is blocked zero
my head is block one so I'm going to
test from block one I'm going to test
that area from and from block or height
number four to height number 100 I'm
going to test to see if it is relative
to where I am so the hundred blocks
above me if that is equal to that if the
hundred blocks above me is equal to the
hundred blocks of that it means that I'm
most probably outside okay so and if
it's not so for example if I let me just
quickly go where can we go test it so if
I'm covered over here okay that block
above me is no longer equal to those
block of blocks and that little spot
over there because there is stone above
me okay so it's really very very
straightforward and simple so test for
blocking that area to where I am I then
output a signal so I've got kind of
inverted the signal so I will always
have the signal on if it is protecting
positive
okay then I'm inverted the signal so
that when I am no longer let me just
quickly get so when I am no longer equal
so if if I'm under something it turns it
off which turns that torch on okay so
this way I can actually control when
it's on or off so when this this block
over here activates this thing just says
that and you are not covered and then
when this torch goes on it says I am
covered okay so what I've just got over
here is well actually got a scoreboard
which just sets my outside score to 1
and 0 just so that I always know where
I'm
side or not and I can then run a whole
bunch of other commands based on that
but that is really how whichever way you
want to use whatever you want use it for
is what you will have in these command
blocks over here I'm not gonna explain
the vampire thing right now but it will
be in a later video okay guys thank you
very much watching as always I will
check your later oh hang on one thing I
forgot to mention I will check your
later